br-use-restore-kubernetes-applications.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: br-use-restore-kubernetes-applications.html
keywords: backing up, restoring, back up, backup, restore, cloud volumes ontap, aws, azure, s3, blob, google cloud, storagegrid, back up volumes, cloud backup, restore volumes, cost, on-premises ontap, onprem, applications, virtual machines, backup and recovery
summary: NetApp Backup and Recovery enables you to restore applications that you have protected with a protection policy. 
---

= Restore Kubernetes applications 
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
NetApp Backup and Recovery enables you to restore applications that you have protected with a protection policy. To restore an application, an application needs to have at least one restore point available. A restore point consists of either the local snapshot or the backup to the object store (or both). You can restore an application using the local, secondary, or object store archive.

.Before you begin
If you are restoring an application that was backed up using Trident Protect, ensure that Trident protect is installed on both the source and destination clusters.

.Required NetApp Console role

Organization admin or SnapCenter admin. link:reference-roles.html[Learn about NetApp Backup and Recovery access roles]. https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/console-setup-admin/reference-iam-predefined-roles.html[Learn about NetApp Console access roles for all services^].

.Steps

. In NetApp Backup and Recovery, select *Inventory*.
. Choose a Kubernetes instance, and select *View* to view the resources associated with that instance.
. Select the *Applications* tab.
. In the list of applications, choose an application you want to restore and select the associated Actions menu.
. Select *View and restore*.
+
The list of restore points appears. 
. Open the Actions menu for the restore point you want to use, and select *Restore*.

[discrete]
===== General settings

. Choose the source to restore from (local or object store).
. Choose the destination cluster from the *Cluster* list.
. Choose the restore destination namespace.
+
You can restore to the original namespace or restore to a new namespace. 
. Select *Next*.

[discrete]
===== Resource selection

. Choose whether you want to restore all resources associated with the application or use a filter to select specific resources to restore:

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.Restore all resources

--
.. Select *Restore all resources*.
.. Select *Next*.
--

.Restore specific resources

--
.. Select *Selective resources*.
.. Choose the behavior of the resource filter. If you choose *Include*, the resources you select are restored. If you choose *Exclude*, the resources you select are not restored.
.. Select *Add rules* to add rules that define filters for selecting resources. You need at least one rule to filter resources.
+
Each rule can filter on criteria such as the resource namespace, labels, group, version, and kind.
.. Select *Save* to save each rule.
.. When you have added all the rules you need, select *Search* to see the resources available in the backup archive that match your filter criteria.
+
NOTE: The resources shown are the resources that currently exist on the cluster.
.. When satisfied with the results, select *Next*.

--

====
[discrete]
===== Destination settings

. Choose to restore either to the default storage class or to a different storage class.
. Optionally, if you are restoring a backup that was made using Trident Protect, view the details of the AppVault used as the storage bucket for the restore operation. If there is a change in your environment or the AppVault status, select *Sync App Vault* to refresh the details.
. Optionally, if you chose to restore to a different storage class, select a destination storage class to match each source storage class.
. Select *Restore*.

Commit message:

Added link to AppVault instruction topic.

br-use-restore-kubernetes-applications.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: br-use-restore-kubernetes-applications.html
keywords: backing up, restoring, back up, backup, restore, cloud volumes ontap, aws, azure, s3, blob, google cloud, storagegrid, back up volumes, cloud backup, restore volumes, cost, on-premises ontap, onprem, applications, virtual machines, backup and recovery
summary: NetApp Backup and Recovery enables you to restore applications that you have protected with a protection policy. 
---

= Restore Kubernetes applications 
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
NetApp Backup and Recovery enables you to restore applications that you have protected with a protection policy. To restore an application, an application needs to have at least one restore point available. A restore point consists of either the local snapshot or the backup to the object store (or both). You can restore an application using the local, secondary, or object store archive.

.Before you begin
If you are restoring an application that was backed up using Trident Protect, ensure that Trident protect is installed on both the source and destination clusters.

.Required NetApp Console role

Organization admin or SnapCenter admin. link:reference-roles.html[Learn about NetApp Backup and Recovery access roles]. https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/console-setup-admin/reference-iam-predefined-roles.html[Learn about NetApp Console access roles for all services^].

.Steps

. In NetApp Backup and Recovery, select *Inventory*.
. Choose a Kubernetes instance, and select *View* to view the resources associated with that instance.
. Select the *Applications* tab.
. In the list of applications, choose an application you want to restore and select the associated Actions menu.
. Select *View and restore*.
+
The list of restore points appears. 
. Open the Actions menu for the restore point you want to use, and select *Restore*.

[discrete]
===== General settings

. Choose the source to restore from (local or object store).
. Choose the destination cluster from the *Cluster* list.
. Choose the restore destination namespace.
+
You can restore to the original namespace or restore to a new namespace. 
. Select *Next*.

[discrete]
===== Resource selection

. Choose whether you want to restore all resources associated with the application or use a filter to select specific resources to restore:

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.Restore all resources

--
.. Select *Restore all resources*.
.. Select *Next*.
--

.Restore specific resources

--
.. Select *Selective resources*.
.. Choose the behavior of the resource filter. If you choose *Include*, the resources you select are restored. If you choose *Exclude*, the resources you select are not restored.
.. Select *Add rules* to add rules that define filters for selecting resources. You need at least one rule to filter resources.
+
Each rule can filter on criteria such as the resource namespace, labels, group, version, and kind.
.. Select *Save* to save each rule.
.. When you have added all the rules you need, select *Search* to see the resources available in the backup archive that match your filter criteria.
+
NOTE: The resources shown are the resources that currently exist on the cluster.
.. When satisfied with the results, select *Next*.

--

====
[discrete]
===== Destination settings

. Choose to restore either to the default storage class or to a different storage class.
. Optionally, if you are restoring a backup that was made using Trident Protect, view the details of the AppVault used as the storage bucket for the restore operation. If there is a change in your environment or the AppVault status, select *Sync App Vault* to refresh the details.
+
NOTE: If you need to create an AppVault on a Kubernetes cluster, refer to link:br-use-kubernetes-appvault-custom-resources.html[Create AppVault objects for compatibility with Trident Protect backups].
. Optionally, if you chose to restore to a different storage class, select a destination storage class to match each source storage class.
. Select *Restore*.
